endpoints/create.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img width="140" height="102" src="https://gfs-na.richardphotolab.com/img/logo/rpl-logo.png">
</p>

# Order/Create

- [Overview](#overview)
  - [Support](#support)
- [Method: POST](#method-post)
  - [Request](#request)
  - [Response](#response)

## Overview

The Create API is a private REST interface for approved Richard partners to submit new order registrations for processing.

**Endpoint:** `/create`

### Support

For API support, please email api.support@richardphotolab.com

## Method: `POST`

### Request

> :warning: This information is specific to this endpoint. You must **_also_** understand the [basic REQUEST documentation](../REQUEST.md).

The payload is designed to let you include one or many order registrations, as needed. A payload consists of a base container _array_ containing order _objects_. There must be a minimum of one(1) order, and a maximum of fifty(50).

The `uniqueId` should be considered an absolute unique identifier for one of your orders. If you already track base and instance ids for your orders, you can use the _base_ in `uniqueId` and _instance_ in `orderNumber`. If you only have an order number, you may put the order number in both fields.

_object_

| Field                                                            |   Type    | Required | Limits  | Description           |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------: | :------: | :-----: | --------------------- |
| `header`                                                         | _object_  |   Yes    |    ~    | Order header          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`orderNumber`                            | _string_  |   Yes    | max 20  | Order Number          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`uniqueId`                               | _string_  |    No    | max 80  | Unique Identifier [(*)](#warning-uniqueId)     |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`orderReference`                         | _string_  |    No    | max 50  | Reference ID          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`orderPromoCode`                         | _string_  |    No    | max 50  | Promotion Code        |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;`shipping`                                           | _object_  |   Yes    |    ~    |                       |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`customerName`   | _string_  |   Yes    | max 100 | Shipping Name         |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`address1`       | _string_  |   Yes    | max 100 | Shipping Address 1    |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`address2`       | _string_  |    No    | max 100 | Shipping Address 2    |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`city`           | _string_  |   Yes    | max 50  | Shipping City         |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`province`       | _string_  |   Yes    | max 50  | Shipping Province/State        |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`postalCode`     | _string_  |   Yes    | max 16  | Shipping Postal Code  |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`country`        | _string_  |   Yes    | max 50  | Shipping Country      |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`phone`          | _integer_ |   Yes    | max 18  | Shipping Phone Number |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`shippingMethod` | _string_  |   Yes    | max 20  | Shipping Method       |
| `items`                                                          |  _array_  |   Yes    |    ~    | Items                 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_(recurring object)_                     | _object_  |   Yes    |    ~    |                       |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`code`       	   | _string_  |   Yes    | max 50  | Item Code             |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`quantity`       | _integer_ |   Yes    |  max 3  | Item Quantity         |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`sourceImage`    | _string_  |    No    |   URL   | Source Image URL      |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`crop`    	   | _array_  |    No    |   URL   | Crop details list (tl-x, tl-y, br-x, br-y)  |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`orientation`    | _integer_  |    No    |   URL   | Orientation in degrees      |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`text`    | _string_  |    No    |   max 250   | Text string for applicable  use       |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`backPrintText1`        | _array_<_object_>  |    No    |    max 35    | Text string for applicable [(*)](#warning-backPrintText1) use          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`backPrintText2`        | _array_<_object_>  |    No    |    max 65    | Text string for applicable use          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`options`        | _array_<_object_>  |    No    |    ~    | Item Options          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_(recurring object)_ | _object_  |   No    |   ~  |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`code` | _string_ | Yes |  ~ | Option Code   |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`quantity`  | _integer_ |   No    |  ~  | Option Quantity         |
| `options`                                                        | _array_<_object_> |    No    |    ~    | Options               |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_(recurring object)_                     | _object_  |    No    |    ~    |						|
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`code`           | _string_  |   Yes    |    ~    | Option Code             |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`quantity`       | _integer_ |    No    |    ~    | Option Quantity         |

<a id="warning-uniqueId"></a>
:warning: The value of `uniqueId` provided will be used to check for existing orders. Only if a match is found, will the incoming order will be considered a duplicate, then rejected. Therefore, generating a `uniqueId` on each request will never be rejected. _Always_ generate and _store_ your `uniqueId` with the order, and use it with each request.

<a id="warning-backPrintText1"></a>
> :pushpin: NOTE: The allowed length of `backPrintText1` is calculated based on an assumed maximum `orderNumber` length of twelve(12) characters. If the `orderNumber` is longer, your `backPrintText1` text is at risk of being truncated. (This does not effect `backPrintText2`)

```JSON
[
  {
    "header": {
      "orderNumber": "PO0061",
      "shipping": {
        "customerName": "Partner Customer",
        "address1": "123 Street Address",
        "address2": "Apt #6",
        "city": "Salt Lake City",
        "province": "Utah",
        "postalCode": "11111",
        "country": "USA",
        "phone": 1111111111,
        "shippingMethod": "SPSSP"
      }
    },
    "items": [
      {
        "code": "CP1010P",
        "quantity": 1,
        "sourceImage": "https://orders-sf1-api.richardphotolab.com/storage/sample-image.jpg",
        "options": [
          {
            "code": "MT1020S2",
            "quantity": 1
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "code": "CP1020D",
        "quantity": 1,
        "sourceImage": "https://orders-sf1-api.richardphotolab.com/storage/sample-image.jpg",
        "crop": [0.2, 0.1, 0.95, 0.85],
        "orientation": 90,
		"backPrintText1": "Partner Name",
		"backPrintText2": "© Gourmet Photography"
      },
      {
        "code": "CP1010P",
        "quantity": 1,
        "sourceImage": "https://orders-sf1-api.richardphotolab.com/storage/sample-image.jpg",
        "options": [
          {
            "code": "MT1020S2",
            "quantity": 2
          }
        ]
      }
    ],
    "options": [
      {
        "code": "SPCC",
        "quantity": 2
      },
      {
        "code": "SPEP",
        "quantity": 1
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

<br/>

### Response

> :pushpin: This information is specific to this endpoint. You must *_also_* understand the [basic RESPONSE documentation](../REQUEST.md).

#### Orders ( `orders` )

_object_
Field | Type | Description
------|:----:|------------
`index` | _integer_ | Internally generated reference for each item
`orderNumber` | _string_ \| _null_ | Provided order number for this item
`uniqueId` | _string_ \| _null_ | Provided unique id for this item
`accepted` | _integer_ (`0`/`1`) | Value representing if the order was accepted/successful
`richardId` | _string_ | Richard's internal identifier
`createdAt` | _string_ \| _null_ | Full string date and time in UTC when the order was accepted
`errors` | _array_<_string_> | Error messages in the event that the order count not be processed

#### HTTP Code: `200` (Success)

```JSON
{
  "orders": [
    {
      "index": 0,
      "orderNumber": "RP9876",
      "uniqueId": "A991321",
      "richardId": "rpl-oae-ceb9fec4-a46c-4ead-99c2-1404b9ae82a6",
      "accepted": 1,
      "createdAt": "2019-11-27T16:26:59.000000Z",
      "errors": []
    },
    {
      "index": 1,
      "orderNumber": "RP9879",
      "uniqueId": null,
      "richardId": "rpl-oae-hy9fec4-a46c-4ead-99c2-2404b9aeG4zS",
      "accepted": 0,
      "createdAt": null,
      "errors": [    
	    "The header.customer.email must be a valid email address",    
	    "The items.1.quantity field is required"
      ]
    },
    {
      "index": 2,
      "orderNumber": "RP9880",
      "uniqueId": "A991328",
      "richardId": "rpl-oae-rsb9fec4-c76c-7fad-99c2-3724b9aeS9wM",
      "accepted": 1,
      "createdAt": "2019-11-27T16:27:32.000000Z",
      "errors": []
    }
  ],
  "errors": []
}
```

:warning: All responses which are not system errors are returned with a `200` status code. This includes responses to requests where _no orders_ were accepted. Always check the `accepted` value for each order to know if it succeeded.

Commit message:

Add explanation concerning empty payload values

endpoints/create.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img width="140" height="102" src="https://gfs-na.richardphotolab.com/img/logo/rpl-logo.png">
</p>

# Order/Create

- [Overview](#overview)
  - [Support](#support)
- [Method: POST](#method-post)
  - [Request](#request)
  - [Response](#response)

## Overview

The Create API is a private REST interface for approved Richard partners to submit new order registrations for processing.

**Endpoint:** `/create`

### Support

For API support, please email api.support@richardphotolab.com

## Method: `POST`

### Request

> :warning: This information is specific to this endpoint. You must **_also_** understand the [basic REQUEST documentation](../REQUEST.md).

The payload is designed to let you include one or many order registrations, as needed. A payload consists of a base container _array_ containing order _objects_. There must be a minimum of one(1) order, and a maximum of fifty(50).

The `uniqueId` should be considered an absolute unique identifier for one of your orders. If you already track base and instance ids for your orders, you can use the _base_ in `uniqueId` and _instance_ in `orderNumber`. If you only have an order number, you may put the order number in both fields.

_object_

| Field                                                            |   Type    | Required | Limits  | Description           |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------: | :------: | :-----: | --------------------- |
| `header`                                                         | _object_  |   Yes    |    ~    | Order header          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`orderNumber`                            | _string_  |   Yes    | max 20  | Order Number          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`uniqueId`                               | _string_  |    No    | max 80  | Unique Identifier [(*)](#warning-uniqueId)     |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`orderReference`                         | _string_  |    No    | max 50  | Reference ID          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`orderPromoCode`                         | _string_  |    No    | max 50  | Promotion Code        |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;`shipping`                                           | _object_  |   Yes    |    ~    |                       |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`customerName`   | _string_  |   Yes    | max 100 | Shipping Name         |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`address1`       | _string_  |   Yes    | max 100 | Shipping Address 1    |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`address2`       | _string_  |    No    | max 100 | Shipping Address 2    |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`city`           | _string_  |   Yes    | max 50  | Shipping City         |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`province`       | _string_  |   Yes    | max 50  | Shipping Province/State        |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`postalCode`     | _string_  |   Yes    | max 16  | Shipping Postal Code  |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`country`        | _string_  |   Yes    | max 50  | Shipping Country      |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`phone`          | _integer_ |   Yes    | max 18  | Shipping Phone Number |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`shippingMethod` | _string_  |   Yes    | max 20  | Shipping Method       |
| `items`                                                          |  _array_  |   Yes    |    ~    | Items                 |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_(recurring object)_                     | _object_  |   Yes    |    ~    |                       |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`code`       	   | _string_  |   Yes    | max 50  | Item Code             |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`quantity`       | _integer_ |   Yes    |  max 3  | Item Quantity         |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`sourceImage`    | _string_  |    No    |   URL   | Source Image URL      |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`crop`    	   | _array_  |    No    |   URL   | Crop details list (tl-x, tl-y, br-x, br-y)  |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`orientation`    | _integer_  |    No    |   URL   | Orientation in degrees      |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`text`    | _string_  |    No    |   max 250   | Text string for applicable  use       |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`backPrintText1`        | _array_<_object_>  |    No    |    max 35    | Text string for applicable [(*)](#warning-backPrintText1) use          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`backPrintText2`        | _array_<_object_>  |    No    |    max 65    | Text string for applicable use          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`options`        | _array_<_object_>  |    No    |    ~    | Item Options          |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_(recurring object)_ | _object_  |   No    |   ~  |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`code` | _string_ | Yes |  ~ | Option Code   |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`quantity`  | _integer_ |   No    |  ~  | Option Quantity         |
| `options`                                                        | _array_<_object_> |    No    |    ~    | Options               |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;_(recurring object)_                     | _object_  |    No    |    ~    |						|
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`code`           | _string_  |   Yes    |    ~    | Option Code             |
| &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`quantity`       | _integer_ |    No    |    ~    | Option Quantity         |

<a id="warning-uniqueId"></a>
:warning: The value of `uniqueId` provided will be used to check for existing orders. Only if a match is found, will the incoming order will be considered a duplicate, then rejected. Therefore, generating a `uniqueId` on each request will never be rejected. _Always_ generate and _store_ your `uniqueId` with the order, and use it with each request.

<a id="warning-backPrintText1"></a>
> :pushpin: NOTE: The allowed length of `backPrintText1` is calculated based on an assumed maximum `orderNumber` length of twelve(12) characters. If the `orderNumber` is longer, your `backPrintText1` text is at risk of being truncated. (This does not effect `backPrintText2`)

#### Request Example

```JSON
[
  {
    "header": {
      "orderNumber": "PO0061",
      "shipping": {
        "customerName": "Partner Customer",
        "address1": "123 Street Address",
        "address2": "Apt #6",
        "city": "Salt Lake City",
        "province": "Utah",
        "postalCode": "11111",
        "country": "USA",
        "phone": 1111111111,
        "shippingMethod": "SPSSP"
      }
    },
    "items": [
      {
        "code": "CP1010P",
        "quantity": 1,
        "sourceImage": "https://orders-sf1-api.richardphotolab.com/storage/sample-image.jpg",
        "options": [
          {
            "code": "MT1020S2",
            "quantity": 1
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "code": "CP1020D",
        "quantity": 1,
        "sourceImage": "https://orders-sf1-api.richardphotolab.com/storage/sample-image.jpg",
        "crop": [0.2, 0.1, 0.95, 0.85],
        "orientation": 90,
		"backPrintText1": "Partner Name",
		"backPrintText2": "© Gourmet Photography"
      },
      {
        "code": "CP1010P",
        "quantity": 1,
        "sourceImage": "https://orders-sf1-api.richardphotolab.com/storage/sample-image.jpg",
        "options": [
          {
            "code": "MT1020S2",
            "quantity": 2
          }
        ]
      }
    ],
    "options": [
      {
        "code": "SPCC",
        "quantity": 2
      },
      {
        "code": "SPEP",
        "quantity": 1
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

:fire: Many fields are not required. However, if the field is present in the payload, it will be validated for proper format, type, and *length*; **empty values are not allowed**. If you do not have a value for a field, simply omit it from the payload.
<br/>

### Response

> :pushpin: This information is specific to this endpoint. You must *_also_* understand the [basic RESPONSE documentation](../REQUEST.md).

#### Orders ( `orders` )

_object_
Field | Type | Description
------|:----:|------------
`index` | _integer_ | Internally generated reference for each item
`orderNumber` | _string_ \| _null_ | Provided order number for this item
`uniqueId` | _string_ \| _null_ | Provided unique id for this item
`accepted` | _integer_ (`0`/`1`) | Value representing if the order was accepted/successful
`richardId` | _string_ | Richard's internal identifier
`createdAt` | _string_ \| _null_ | Full string date and time in UTC when the order was accepted
`errors` | _array_<_string_> | Error messages in the event that the order count not be processed

#### HTTP Code: `200` (Success)

```JSON
{
  "orders": [
    {
      "index": 0,
      "orderNumber": "RP9876",
      "uniqueId": "A991321",
      "richardId": "rpl-oae-ceb9fec4-a46c-4ead-99c2-1404b9ae82a6",
      "accepted": 1,
      "createdAt": "2019-11-27T16:26:59.000000Z",
      "errors": []
    },
    {
      "index": 1,
      "orderNumber": "RP9879",
      "uniqueId": null,
      "richardId": "rpl-oae-hy9fec4-a46c-4ead-99c2-2404b9aeG4zS",
      "accepted": 0,
      "createdAt": null,
      "errors": [    
	    "The header.customer.email must be a valid email address",    
	    "The items.1.quantity field is required"
      ]
    },
    {
      "index": 2,
      "orderNumber": "RP9880",
      "uniqueId": "A991328",
      "richardId": "rpl-oae-rsb9fec4-c76c-7fad-99c2-3724b9aeS9wM",
      "accepted": 1,
      "createdAt": "2019-11-27T16:27:32.000000Z",
      "errors": []
    }
  ],
  "errors": []
}
```

:warning: All responses which are not system errors are returned with a `200` status code. This includes responses to requests where _no orders_ were accepted. Always check the `accepted` value for each order to know if it succeeded.
